---
title: "Routine Collection of High-Resolution cryo-EM Datasets Using 200 KV Transmission Electron Microscope"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-03-01-Routine-Collection-of-High-Resolution-cryo-EM-Datasets-Using-200-KV-Transmission-Electron-Microscope
date: 2022-03-01
venue: 'JoVE (Journal of Visualized Experiments)'
paperurl: 'https://www.jove.com/t/63519/routine-collection-high-resolution-cryo-em-datasets-using-200-kv'
citation: ' Adrian Koh,  Sagar Khavnekar,  Wen Yang,  Dimple Karia,  Dennis Cats,  Rob Ploeg,  Fanis Grollios,  Oliver Raschdorf,  Abhay Kotecha,  Daniel Němeček, &quot;Routine Collection of High-Resolution cryo-EM Datasets Using 200 KV Transmission Electron Microscope.&quot; JoVE (Journal of Visualized Experiments), 2022.'
---
Cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has been established as a routine method for protein structure determination during the past decade, taking an ever-increasing share of published structural data. Recent advances in TEM technology and automation have boosted both the speed of data collection and quality of acquired images while simultaneously decreasing the required level of expertise for obtaining cryo-EM maps at sub-3 \&amp;\#197; resolutions. While most of such high-resolution structures have been obtained using state-of-the-art 300 kV cryo-TEM systems, high-resolution structures can be also obtained with 200 kV cryo-TEM systems, especially when equipped with an energy filter. Additionally, automation of microscope alignments and data collection with real-time image quality assessment reduces system complexity and assures optimal microscope settings, resulting in increased yield of high-quality images and overall throughput of data collection. This protocol demonstrates the implementation of recent technological advances and automation features on a 200 kV cryo-transmission electron microscope and shows how to collect data for the reconstruction of 3D maps that are sufficient for de novo atomic model building. We focus on best practices, critical variables, and common issues that must be considered to enable the routine collection of such high-resolution cryo-EM datasets. Particularly the following essential topics are reviewed in detail: i) automation of microscope alignments, ii) selection of suitable areas for data acquisition, iii) optimal optical parameters for high-quality, high-throughput data collection, iv) energy filter tuning for zero-loss imaging, and v) data management and quality assessment. Application of the best practices and improvement of achievable resolution using an energy filter will be demonstrated on the example of apo-ferritin that was reconstructed to 1.6 \&amp;\#197;, and Thermoplasma acidophilum 20S proteasome reconstructed to 2.1-\&amp;\#197; resolution using a 200 kV TEM equipped with an energy filter and a direct electron detector.

[Access paper here](https://www.jove.com/t/63519/routine-collection-high-resolution-cryo-em-datasets-using-200-kv){:target="_blank"}
